Document:System Requirement Specification Document

Title:System Reqruiement Spefication for Employee Management System

Team :
      Employees, HR Manager,CEO,trainee,System Engineers

Objective :
           The Employee Management System provides the employer with the insights into the workforce as well as to manage 
           the data of the employees. This system enables the managment to access all the data of the current working employees
           in an organized way.

Scope:
          This Management system allows the top management to add or remove the details of the current working employees. 
          The employee will be able to monitor his/her performance as well as attendance.

Definitions:
           EMS-Employee Management System
           CEO-Chief Executive Officer
           PDA: Portable Device Application
	   HR-Human Resource

Requirements:

Functional Requirements:
          Only employees currently working in this orginazation will be able to access this system. The employee will be able 
          to track his/her performance as well as attendence. The employee will be able to monitor his/her salary and will be able 
          to view all the details regarding the organization.

          Only the HR department will be able to add new employee's details as well remove details in case employee leaves the 
          orginazation. The CEO will be able to monitor all the employees details. Each individual will only view his/her details
          only.The Employee Management System provides the employer with the insights into the workforce.
  
          Each individual employee will be able to edit selected informations like name, address. The HR department will be able
          to promote any employee based on his/her performance and increase the salary as well.
        
NonFunctional Requirement:

          Security
                 Only the registered employee can access the details.
                 The HR department will be able to access the system through authentication proceess.
                 System will provide access to  the content , operations using Role based security (Authorization) (Permissions based on Role)
                 System will automatically log of  all stakeholder after some time due to inactiveness.
                 System will block operations for employee leaving the orginazation.
                 System  will internally maintain secure communiction channel between Servers ( Web Servers,databse Server)
                 Sensitive data will be always encrypted across communcation.

          Availability
	 uptime:   24* 7  available
                  99.999%

          Portablility
	  PDA: Portable Device Application
                   System will provide portable User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through  users will be able to access employee managment portal.
                   System can be deployed to single server, multi server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP)
 
          Accessibility
                  Only the employees working in the orginazation will be able to access this EMS portal.
                  The CEO will be able to view all employees performance as well as attendence.
 
         Reliability
                  The system will backup all the data on regular basis and recover in short time duration to keep system operational.                 
                  Continous updates are matained , continous Adminstration is done to keep system operational.
	 During peak hours system will maintain same user experaince by managing load balacning .






	Use Case Diagram:  ( UML)
		Object Oriented Analyis and Design Notation: UML--------Unified Modeling language

		Design Phase:

			Use case diagram
			Activity diagram
			State Transition diagram
			Class diagram
			deployment diagram
			object diagram
	


Analysis:
	Actors:
		Admin
		Employees
		Department head
		bod
		
		
	  identify essential characteristics of Employee Management System portal
		we have identified use cases

		1.Employee personal information record keeping use case
		2. Departmentwise employees details use case
		3.Employee performance and salary record use case
		
